Storage cleanup and retained development lessons - 2026-10-06

Scope: retire only .worktrees/anim35, armlife, balance, circuit, spear,
v09-fx, v09-gameplay, and v09-javelin. Keep the main checkout, claude-120,
external worktrees, all existing Git branches, and the v1.2.0 release tag.
The retirement outcome and preservation manifest are recorded under
artifacts/storage-cleanup-2026-10-06/.

Completed: all eight worktrees were removed and their original branch tips
were verified. Observed free space increased by 96.5 GB (89.9 GiB), after
retaining the 1.3 GiB preservation archive. The project now occupies about
52.5 GiB across 125,095 files, compared with 142.6 GiB before cleanup.
Main tracked files and HEAD, v1.2.0, the pinned asset bundle, retained duplicate
files, and the 1.2.0 release ZIP all passed the final integrity checks.

Recovery
- The preservation.json file records each original branch and commit.
- Branch history retains tracked source and assets. Git LFS storage is retained;
  no LFS prune or Git history rewrite is part of this cleanup.
- retired-worktree-local-files.zip preserves unique ignored non-cache files
  and older Markdown notes that differ from the main checkout. Its contents
  were checked by CRC and SHA256 before removal was allowed.
- Files identical to the main checkout are recorded in the manifest instead
  of copied again. bin, obj, __pycache__, .cache, Library, Temp, and exact
  RuntimeCopies validation outputs are classified as regenerable caches.
- Recreate a checkout later with:
  git worktree add <new-local-directory> <retained-branch>
  Restore the relevant branch-named archive entries if local evidence is needed.

Lessons to carry forward
1. Retire temporary worktrees after a release instead of keeping complete
   copies of the art and Unity asset tree. The eight old checkouts occupied
   about 91.3 GiB; only about 0.4 GiB of the main Unity project was Library cache.
2. Keep iteration evidence compact. Main animation WIP occupied 12.2 GiB,
   including 6.2 GiB of transition renders; 6.6 GiB of WIP was Git-tracked.
   Future render sequences should use local ignored output folders, with a
   selected review clip and numerical verification report retained as evidence.
   Existing tracked render data is left unchanged in this cleanup.
3. Preserve source animation checks, not just pictures. The archived v10
   animation-pass criteria call for complete transform keys, matching loop
   endpoints, neutral recovery, fixed cameras/lights, valid weights, and
   verification after reopening the saved file. Those remain useful criteria.
4. Separate local math/API checks from in-game evidence. Early ability result
   reports explicitly distinguish decompile/build checks from game validation.
   A successful compile should never be presented as a gameplay acceptance test.
5. Preserve server-side re-entrancy rules. The historical spear/discharge
   result explains consuming stored charge before firing the damage event,
   with an additional firing guard to prevent recursive burst chains. This is
   a historical design lesson, not an instruction to restore the old ability.
6. Evaluate effective proc output with accuracy and overlapping targets.
   docs/proc-balance-audit.md records how improved shot accuracy increases
   practical item output and how beam, splash, and fork hits overlap. Its
   numbers describe the dated audit, not necessarily the 1.2 release defaults.
7. Keep the pinned bundle as an explicit release input. The current checkout's
   tools/release/Make-Package.ps1 requires artifacts/foundation/bundle15/
   hollowsaintassets with its pinned hash. Do not delete artifacts wholesale.
8. Old branch history is not proof of missing release features: these branches
   have commits outside v1.2.0. Keep them for reference rather than treating
   an ancestry count as a reason to merge obsolete prototypes into the release.

Sources reviewed: docs/archive/animation-pass-v10.md,
docs/archive/result-speardischarge.md, docs/archive/result-opencircuit.md,
docs/proc-balance-audit.md, tools/release/Make-Package.ps1, and the retained
worktrees' branch logs and development notes.

No gameplay or art refactor, package publication, push, or deployment is part
of this storage cleanup.
